Mathew Davidov
NBA: The Analytics Movement


     The game of basketball has evolved with tremendous strides throughout its existence. From
the days where you could not dribble to today’s chessboard game, great progress has been made,
for better or worse. Two of the most monumental moments in official basketball (primarily the
NBA, the National Basketball Association) was the introduction of the shot clock, which is the
24-second timer in which you must shoot, and the three-point line. If an individual were to
compare today’s iteration of basketball to years past, e.g. the 1960s, one would see a
fundamentally different game. For example, the Phoenix Suns in the middle 2000s sparked a new
philosophy. The more possessions you have an opportunity to score, the greater the chances the
team will make more shots, resulting in more wins. This is not the only new philosophy “shined”
on the NBA, as from around that point on the analytics movement started to gain traction. In this
paper, I will examine the history of how the game is played. Primarily, the different philosophies
teams have used to gain any competitive advantage possible, including the use of machine
learning and various technology designated for efficient basketball. 


-----
Why is it an interesting topic to you? Basketball is one of my favorite things to do and I enjoy
watching the NBA. Additionally, I enjoy learning about strategies implemented and that includes
what I briefly described above.

What do you already know or hope to learn more about before presenting? I know quite a bit about
NBA/Basketball, but I hope to learn more on the statistical/technological aspect incorporated
into the NBA.

What do you hope to teach fellow classmates? Brief history, statistical aspect of NBA, and use of
technology/programs/video.

Brief outline of your presentation structure: Overview of topic (similar to paragraph above),
introducing concepts/terminology that are important, outline of philosophies created from the
“analytical movement”, and the things that contribute to the movement, e.g. programs created for
analyzing the game (sportVU, Synergy), machine learning, statistics, and various other
algorithms/math incorporation.



https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mwUay_V9QZfhM13PjBiTra8Jdovs_eOr4V64B_bPJzo/edit?usp=sharing
