Mathew Davidov
Assignment 6: Presentation Reflection

	The preparation done for the presentation was not done optimally. In hindsight, I would change my workflow for the presentation in the following manner. Originally, I constructed a topic that was perhaps too broad. Rather, I needed to home in on a subtopic that I can focus on and deliver, as opposed to a wide range of topics I had no time to cover. The original topic was the NBA and its history, however, this is a wide-ranging topic and has no area to create a thesis or argument. Additionally, I decided to write a free-flowing essay to start and use that for the presentation. Even though I refined the essay, I couldn’t use the essay at the time of the presentation because reading the essay instead of using visual cues (e.g. slides/videos) is generally frowned upon and does not make for a good presentation. My next thought was to create a paper I would use as a guideline, which has each subtopic listed and then I would use the paper while talking to guide me along. However, this made no use of visual cues and would most likely make the audience bored or uninterested. Finally, a few days before my presentation was scheduled for, I made a short slides to visually aid my speech and strengthen the presentation. From what I understand, individuals would rather see a video or a picture in addition to presenter talking as opposed to just a speech. Unfortunately, the slides were formed too late and they were rushed and weren’t made to look presentable. This had a side-effect of me being unprepared a bit as well since I often got lost in my thoughts while presenting as I had relatively no practice. Had I finished the slides earlier, I would’ve had much more time to practice the presentation and flow cohesively on that day.  

	The final structure of my talk had the following organization: Briefly introduce the NBA, display a few important but basic statistics, explain the need for more advanced statistics, explain the three-pointer and its importance, the rise of the three-pointer, philosophies of offense in the NBA, the current NBA, and the technology used in the NBA to determine what value a player/play/offense/etc. brings. This structure isn’t bad, however, I would probably change the order. First, I needed to introduce what type of offenses were being used in the NBA earlier on to give the audience a better understanding of what my presentation was truly about. Since the topic was supposed to be about finding the best tools to create the perfect offense (efficiency-wise), talking about the iterations of offensive philosophies and earlier and better would have brought my point together. Additionally, I don’t recall ever explaining the point of my presentation explicitly, and that might’ve cleared some of the confusion the audience had. Furthermore, talking about what efficiency is and why it matters is another point I should make very clear. Therefore, explaining efficiency, the type of offenses, and the advancement of what is considered “efficient” should have been the focal points. Without these being made clear, I got confused myself at a couple of points in time during the presentation. 

	The videos at the end of my presentation were extremely useful. Both of the videos showcased the relatively new Second Spectrum technology, which is immensely valuable to NBA teams and departments. The technology is the final form of determining how valuable anything is in the NBA, which is what I was getting to during my presentation. All the statistics, advanced statistics, philosophies, shot types, etc. all can be fine-tuned by using technology. Because of how valuable the technology is, given more time, I would have liked to include more video clips of the technology in action and showcase different areas. I only displayed the videos of the current probabilities of players shot going in during real-time, which is just one feature. Additionally, I would also like to research how they created the technology, however, that might be confidential information. From what I read, they originally used machine learning to make the AI count box score statistics using 10 NBA cameras. Understanding how they actually got that work and many of the features of their software would be amazing.

	The feedback of my presentation was overall very good. From what I can tell, most of my audience was unaware of many of these basketball terms or even the NBA in general. However, there were also people who do know about the NBA more in-depth as I do. To talk to both groups of people at the same time is a nightmare, as I would love to go deeper into the topics as an avid NBA fan, but many people would be even more confused. One individual even suggested this, saying they would’ve liked for me to talk more about it on a deeper level. However, I needed to find a balance to cater to both audiences. I believe by starting at a basic level and going further from there on slowly is the best route. It may not be the best for both parties, but it certainly would cover the most ground possible in the allotted time frame. The open-ended feedback was very similar to the quantitative feedback, so there was barely any difference. 
